# Sovereign Default Risk and Monetary Policy

**Author:** Alberto Dario   
**Date:** September 2023 

## Abstract
This paper investigates the effects of endogenizing the sovereign debt’s default risk on monetary policy. Starting from the simple analytical model of Bi, Leeper, and Leith (2018), we take a step further by endogenizing the default risk, assuming it to be a non-linear function of the real debt servicing. The resulting model, despite its simplicity, features a powerful feedback effect of monetary policy into the default risk of sovereign debt, δ, as well as it incorporates an inflationary role of the sovereign debt stock. Effectively, a Fiscal Theory of Price Level type of model arises, with the caveat of sovereign debt being risky. The quantitative analysis considers different two types of shocks, default risk shock and monetary shock, and compare the economy’s response in four scenarios: risky-rate-targeting monetary authority with endogenous risk, risky-rate-targeting monetary authority with exogenous risk, risk-free- rate-targeting monetary authority with endogenous risk, and risk-free-rate-targeting monetary authority with exogenous risk. The main findings are the following: first, confirming the results from Bi, Leeper, and Leith (2018), if the monetary authority targets the risk-free rate, target inflation can always be achieved, which is not the case if monetary policy targets the risky rate; second, when default risk is en- dogenous, the model predicts larger and more persistent deviations from the steady state, which, insofar as such deviations are costly from a welfare perspective, may be relevant. Crucially, the endogeneity of the default risk gives rise to dynamics which can be substantially different to the case in which default is exogenous.
## Content 
This repository displays the code for the Quantitative Analysis section of the paper. The code is composed by two Dynare scripts, the .mod files, each containing the model and simulations for the two version of the model developed in the paper, and of a Matlab script, used to execute the Dynare code as well as to plot the Impulse Response Functions of the simulations.
